--- Duck!!! ---

Written by Sander Alsema for the 10-liner competition 2018.
Language: Commodore 64 Basic v2
Category: PUR-80


I prefer VICE, but you can use any emulator that works with *.d64 files.
If you haven't installed it yet, it can be downloaded from their website.

Here's how to use it:
 Click : File -> Attach disk image -> Drive 8
 Select: Duck!!!.d64
 Click : Attach

Now, just as you would with a normal Commodore 64, you can type:
 LOAD"$",8             (to load the directory)
 LOAD"DUCK!!!",8       (to load the game)
 LIST                  (to view the directory or game listing)
 RUN                   (to run the game)

Be aware that you are now using a virtual Commodore 64 keyboard.
Therefore the keys will differ slightly from your physical keyboard.
Use <SHIFT> '2' to display quotation marks.

---

In this game you have to help a little duckling dodge cannon balls, while
it's trying to cross the screen.
Every time you successfully dodge a cannon ball, the duckling will move a
step forward, giving you less reaction time to dodge the next one.
If the duckling gets hit, you lose the game. If the duckling reaches the
finish however, you win!

To dodge:
 Press 'J' to jump.
 Press 'D' to duck.

Unlike games that are in an infinite loop, where you just score points
until you die, this game actually has a victory condition.
This means you can win and feel really proud of what you have accomplished!

---

Line 0: Read two strings from a data statement elsewhere in the program, to
        make efficient use of the available program space.
        These strings will be used to form the 'image' strings.

        Clear the screen and display the start and finish markers in white.


Line 1: Create the jump-image-string by adding two empty screen lines under
        the duckling.

        Create the stand-image-string by adding two empty screen lines
        above the duckling.

        Create the duck-image-string by adding three empty screen lines
        above part of the duckling, omitting the leg screen line.

        Set screen color to green.

        Bring the cursor to its starting position.


Line 2: Set the horizontal position of the cannon ball to the right of the
        Screen.

        Calculate the screen memory position using the vertical position
        of the cannon ball, chosen at random from four possible screen
        lines.

        Clear the jump/duck timer.

        Set the display-string to the stand-image-string.

        Check to see if the horizonal position of the cursor has reached
        the finish. If so then set the victory message and jump to line 9.


Line 3: Display the display-string and return the cursor to its original
        position.

        Set the color of the cannon ball to black.

        Display the cannon ball.

        Check to see if the screen position to the left of the cannon ball
        is blank. If not then clear the victory message and jump to line 9.


Line 4: Read the keyboard.

        If 'J' was pressed and the timer was not yet set, then set the
        timer to six iterations and set the display-string to the
        jump-image-string.


Line 5: If 'D' was pressed and the timer was not yet set, then set the
        timer to six iterations and set the display-string to the
        duck-image-string.


Line 6: If the timer is set, then decrease the timer. If in doing so the
        timer has cleared, then set the display-string to the
        stand-image-string.


Line 7: Clear the old cannon ball position.

        Set the new cannon ball position to the left.

        If the cannon ball has reached the left of the screen, then move
        the cursor (and therefore the duckling) to the right and jump to
        line 2.


Line 8: Jump to line 3.

        This line also contains the data for the duckling-string and the
        empty-screen-line-string.


Line 9: Clear the screen, display 'GAME OVER' in orange and the victory
        message (if any) in purple.

        Wait for a while.

        Restart the game.

---